who here works at a startup
and who here is familiar with stripe
it's great i'm keeping my hands up for
both because stripe still feels like a
startup to me
talk seems like we're talking to the
right audience here
so if you're familiar with stripe which
it looks like most of you are
you're probably aware that stripe has
really expanded its product suite
recently and we're specifically building
for sas companies and hundreds of
thousands of them are using our
different products everything from
billing and invoicing to revenue
recognition
tax
card issuing
and even verifying identity and
obviously payments
but before stripe i was also a founder
and most recently with a sas company
so i'm really excited to be here today
to share more about my journey and what
i've learned in the last year at stripe
so after a decade of my own startup
experience and the last year at stripe i
wanted to talk about three main things
today
first
overcoming the pain points of growing a
sas business but specifically with your
financial stack
second
some great trends that we're seeing in
the market today
and third ways to unlock growth in the
internet economy if the talk title
didn't give it away
so it's 2021 it's been a crazy year
and while tech has enabled us to do so
many things that weren't possible five
years ago
sas is still really difficult to
automate
it's hard to build a sas business
why is this
and this simple and it's a simple reason
we see it all the time it's your
financial stack
sas is notoriously complex to build
things like setting up billing systems
getting enterprise sales up and running
automating your revenue
these are all very difficult pain points
as your scaling company so let me start
by sharing a little bit more about my
own journey as running growing my
startup and also hopefully you'll see
that there's some similarities with
either what you're experiencing today or
what you may experience as you grow
so more than 10 years ago now i started
my first startup that's me on the left
with our startup corgi her name is ro
she still existed on people's laps when
they're working it's not very efficient
and on the left is where it all started
with a purple panda
her name was pandora and she was the
main hero and inspiration for us to
build lightwell software which twitter
acquired in 2019
so we started off by building
interactive story apps for kids and they
were all around pandora's epic adventure
we had an entire design engineering art
team building these apps from the ground
up we even had voice over artist voice
over actors and that was actually just
us and the engineering team doing the
voices
but it took months for us to build these
apps from scratch and pretty soon we
realized we needed to invest in our own
internal tooling to make this app
development faster
we ended up building a tool to create
interactive apps without code so the
design team could create animations
interactions and export them directly to
native ios code that our engineers could
use
the first app took us nine months to
build and pretty soon once we had
developed the tool and and launched our
last app it took one week of engineering
time
that was a pretty big aha moment for us
we realized we should just invest in
this software and make it easier for
other mobile app developers to build
apps
and this trend towards no code tooling
and faster production maps really well
to what we're seeing in setting up sas
companies
but taking a step back
even though it was easier for us to
creatively develop these apps
building our business and financial
stack still wasn't
let's take a look at why that was
so a lot of startups in the audience and
as a startup you're focused on so many
things
you're talking to users you're raising
money you're selling to customers you're
building great products and the last
thing
you want to spend time on is setting up
your financial stack
so when we started selling lightwell
software first it was hard to even set
up a billing system where we could
accept simple monthly subscriptions on
our website it took a lot of engineering
time
then we started to sell to some one-off
enterprise customers which is great for
the business but it required a ton of
manual work things like custom contracts
manually invoicing
following up on payments manually
and ultimately it led to what we call a
patchwork billing solution which some of
you probably have as well
and accounting for revenue as you grow
doesn't get any easier it's really easy
with a few customers but as soon as you
have hundreds it becomes much more
difficult so we were not a favorite
client of our accountants and this
squiggly line really only shows the
operational side of your financial stack
there's also things like managing churn
for completely solvable reasons like
credit cards expiring
so when scaling our own software
setting up the commercial infrastructure
was really the hardest part
and i really just thought i really
didn't think i was crazy you know i
thought this it couldn't be this hard
and it shouldn't be
and it's been sort of comforting being
at strife and seeing that this is pretty
common
we see the same things time and again
from founders
the complexity of running a business
actually compounds as you grow and your
financial stack sort of looks like this
line
and many of you are bogged down with
your infrastructure which takes away
from your core product development
so payments something as simple as
payments like accepting and booking
revenue
it still remains a hard challenge for
internet businesses to solve
we see this every day at stripe and it's
what we like to solve for
if we look at b2c or consumer payments
it's gotten a lot better it's pretty
easy once you set up a web checkout it's
two steps you get paid
but as soon as you look at b2b payments
where you have two sides of the equation
with two different workflows two
different processes a ton of different
tools it becomes a very different set of
problems
so this gap between b2b payments and b2c
payments are becoming increasingly stark
making money really shouldn't be this
hard
and then if we look at sas businesses
that are smaller as you're getting
started self-built billing and invoicing
systems tend to be incredibly hard to
scale we talked a little bit about this
already but if you're starting off with
regular subscription billing and then
you're switching to usage based billing
if you have an inflexible system it's
hard to make that change
or if we'd mentioned collecting unpaid
invoices
that's very easy with one customer but
much harder with hundreds
so if we look at large legacy enterprise
companies they tend to have entire teams
that are just focused on collecting
money they'll have an ar or accounts
receivable team that's focused on
generating and sending invoices and then
collecting on that payment
you have accounts payable teams or ap
teams that are matching those payments
to invoices
so for all startups here likely you
don't have either of those teams you
probably have a co-founder or a biz ops
person who's doing all those jobs at
once
but as soon as you start to scale this
can cost millions of dollars a year
many businesses have even told us they
spent upwards of two to 300 hours a
month
just making their books compliant with
accrual based accounting rules
you could say it's a cruel manual
process
a few founders have recently even shared
their spreadsheet of shame with us
which has the manual tabs imports and
rules in excel spreadsheets that manage
their revenue
and by the way if anyone out here also
has a spreadsheet of shame come talk to
us
we really do want to help
so now that i've talked about all the
pain points and difficulties
let's talk about some exciting trends
that we're seeing in the market that are
promising for internet businesses
so sas companies all of you are leading
the way in making it faster and easier
to grow a business than ever
now it's no surprise the internet
economy has exploded in the last year or
last few decades but also the last year
e-commerce spending in the u.s alone is
expected to double from 2019 to 2023
that's 600 billion to 1.2 trillion
and if we look at these logos which most
of our must us are very familiar with
clearly there's an abundance of new
tools and technology to enable
businesses that didn't even exist five
years ago
our research has suggested that the cost
of software tools needed to run these
businesses on the back end has
completely collapsed in the last decade
that's gone from roughly four million
dollars in 2011 which is insane
to 4 000 today which still sounds a
little expensive
and at stripe we have access to a lot of
data and we've seen hundreds of
thousands of sas companies scale on our
platform and we've also seen in the last
decade that it's cheaper and faster for
them to build as well
now i've been keeping an eye on three
trends that help explain why this is
possible
first no surprise my favorite the
explosion of low and no code tools
you can now outsource pretty much every
business function you have you've got
shopify for ecommerce operations wix for
no code website building zero for
automating accounting webflow for web
development and stripe for automating
revenue and financial operations
things that used to take months and tons
of manual work can now be done so much
more quickly
and this is all possible thanks to the
increasing power and sophistication of
no code software
basically things are easy and cheap to
build
second we're at saster so we all know
this but we're moving away from license
based software to subscription and
usage-based business models which is
great for customers and for companies
not to date myself but i remember buying
adobe software on cds in school and it's
much easier now at the click of a button
in fact at stripe we've seen that
subscription businesses have grown 50 in
just the last year and the overall
subscription economy has grown six times
in the last nine years
and these businesses are reporting
growing up to eight times faster than
traditional businesses
so it looks like we're all in the right
business
third
many of these software businesses are
evolving into platforms which enables
access to software that's even more
integrated and easy to use
software companies have woken up to the
fact that they can provide a more
valuable service and higher valuations
by serving more horizontal use cases
with vertical functionality like
payments and financial services
management services for newsletter
writers but now they've expanded into
podcast monetization and revenue sharing
lightspeed started offering point of
sale but they've expanded into enhanced
online and in-store merchant
capabilities
this all makes it easier for you as a
startup to find an integrated all-in-one
solution that just works
and it's also hopefully really inspiring
to see that sas is taking on a new shape
ultimately business functions are being
commoditized and made available as
automated services
you can build on apis to run many more
specialist business and revenue
operations entirely online
you can deploy subscriptions as a
service tax collection as a service
billing as a service
fraud prevention as a service you get a
service you get a service you get a
service everything is a service now
and all this to say it's never been
easier to build a product business than
it is today
so i talked a little bit before about
how we're going to go through some tips
and principles on how to build great sas
companies
how to take these products to market
first
it's really about designing and
deploying that killer product
it requires a rapid iterative loop with
the right customers we're going to talk
a little bit more about that in a little
bit
second is helping to run your business
as it grows you have to digitize
processes from the start
now
this might sound counterintuitive for
those of you who heard the startup
advice like do things that don't scale
do manual processes but what they mean
to say is don't
is to do things that don't scale
for your core business competency
when it comes to things that aren't your
core you should digitize
it's like trying to build your own
servers instead of using aws
these two principles have guided how we
build products at stripe as well as my
own experience of company building
so first let's start with software
design you have a killer idea and you
want to ship an amazing product
first you have to be incredibly
incredibly specific with who your
customers are
at lightwell we were our own customers
we built for interactive story app
developers and we solved a really hard
problem for them which we'd already
solved for ourselves
and even though we were our own users
we still talked to what we called our
canonical app developers on a daily
basis that meant calling them up in the
morning showing them a new feature
fixing a bug and getting their feedback
why combinator is famous for telling
their startups
it's better to make a few people really
happy than to make a lot of people
semi-happy
so my guidance to you would be really
similar
find the most discerning customers you
can and build to their spec
start with a product that's really
useful for a few users
then build a relationship with them and
really understand and develop a mental
model of what they want and why
then iterate intensively with them with
that small number of discerning users
almost like you're a professional
services firm building to a spec
and if you don't know specific people in
your target audience i'd suggest going
and trying to find them and talking to
them today
second
so you know who your users are go deep
to understand your customers and users
problems
you should be asking and re-asking
yourself what are your users really
trying to do here
it's like the henry ford saying that we
all are aware of if i'd asked people
what they wanted they would have said
faster horses
so a recent example from stripe atlas
we have a form on our website where we
actually ask users what should stripe do
next and we get a lot of engagement
so a lot of customers started asking for
help and getting started in other
countries that stripe wasn't in yet
so we thought this sounded like we
should add payment methods in other
countries
we were wrong
we clearly wanted other payments methods
in other countries but what they really
meant to say was that they wanted
stripes infrastructure they wanted a way
to set up their business from other
countries
so we launched atlas to do just this we
let founders incorporate and start
taking payments in days helping them
launch thousands of new businesses from
140 new countries
so here by digging in with questions we
got to the real problem that they were
trying to solve and we came up with a
somewhat unexpected solution
third
build a product that aligns you with
your customers
so what does this mean
you know who your customers are you know
what they need
you want to design the best product that
is good for your customer and for you
so we saw this with stripe invoicing
recently so cash flow is super important
for sask businesses right
well traditionally invoices have 30-day
due dates but we wanted to help our
users get paid faster and improve their
cash flow
the here the more the business collects
the better it is for them and for stripe
so we added a feature where they could
mark invoices as do today
it's a very small simple improvement
and even we were surprised by the
results
in a few weeks we had tens of thousands
of businesses using this feature to mark
50 000 invoices as paid as do today
increasing how quickly they were able to
collect
so going back to the model for the
example that we just talked about in
building great products we designed do
today a simple feature for sas
businesses
we knew they wanted better cash flow and
predictability and that 30-day due dates
could be improved
we built a simple feature that aligned
us with our users on top of an a product
in order to improve their cash flow
and while it's still early we've seen
tons of good adoption and most
importantly user satisfaction
all right let's shift over to running
your business
and the first thing that i'm sure all of
us want to talk about is costs so i
talked a little bit about before about
how it's still too difficult but really
too expensive for founders to get their
financial stack up and running
in fact one founder had shared their old
models with us and we ran the numbers
and the rough math came out to 10 cents
on the dollar of overhead on just manual
billing manual collections revenue
recognition and analytics
this founder had what they called ar
days for when their accounts receivable
line grew too large and they called on
the entire team that's the product the
sales the support team to actually pick
up the phone and dial for dollars in
order to collect on these age
receivables and invoices
can you imagine that's a full team
dedicated to collecting on unpaid
invoices when it could have been fully
automated by software
another example
is subscription-based tools
which
should be getting better all the time
so at stripe we use machine learning
across our network to make our products
more effective with no work required
from our users things like smart retries
or radar fraud protection
software is and should be getting better
all of the time
so last year at stripe we deployed our
core production api thousands of times
that's our core api to manage payments
and money movement
and here without any work from our
customers the platform is getting better
all the time
so second actually our favorite thing to
talk about revenue
software is making it easier than ever
to experiment with pricing and packaging
so last week i spoke with a founder who
was building software to help companies
scale their support teams it's a new sas
business but they had some pretty big
customers already they're using stripe
invoicing in the dashboard to send
invoices and they were adamant about not
wiring up or writing any code
because they wanted to understand every
single conversation and get feedback on
that pricing model
he was actually such a fan of price
testing himself that when i asked about
their billing system multiple times or
plans for a billing system he just said
i am the billing engine i think he
really did believe it
um
so a good pricing strategy does a few
things
first it aligns your product with your
users needs really similar to aligning
your product like we talked about before
how do they derive value from the
product this is really where usage based
pricing is important to test
second it optimizes value capture by
reflecting your users willingness to pay
so are you charging them for the things
that they want to pay for
and third it simplifies your first time
to sale
things like free trials and discounted
annual plans
but ultimately no matter what pricing
model or plan you choose
testing is key
third
let's talk about more revenue but
specifically optimizing what's recurring
so you have to understand your key stats
these might be mrr arr arpu churn or ltb
and like i said before it's so expensive
to acquire these new customers that once
you have them you have to do everything
you possibly can to keep them
and price testing can really help with
this for example we're seeing businesses
increase renewals by offering discounted
annual plans or the ability to pause
subscriptions instead of cancel them
it's also worth looking at ways to
eliminate involuntary churn
so for instance at stripe we
automatically update expired or replaced
cards and we have a smart retries
feature like i mentioned before which
uses machine learning to retry cards at
the exact time that they're most likely
to succeed
twilio is an example they deployed this
recently and increased their
authorization rates by a full two
percent
all this to say is another argument for
outsourcing your financial operations
and providers like stripe can help
afford to make those optimizations for
your recurring revenue
much more likely
and
likely things that you wouldn't invest
in yourself
fourth
and last tip
plan for the regulatory implications of
your growth
now this is probably the gnarliest one
to consider as you scale expanding to
different countries and markets can have
huge compliance implications
i'm sure you've heard the saying the
internet may be borderless but money is
not
and the cost of compliance is increasing
year on year and many businesses are
struggling to keep up
so a few examples that come to mind that
we think about
in italy there is an e-invoicing
regulation where business-to-business
invoices have to be sent to the italian
government in order for them to be
compliant
if you're selling sas sas is taxed in
138 countries and you have to collect
and file in every country
if you're doing business in europe you
have to make sure your payments are
compliant with sca or strong customer
authentication
these are just three small examples
there's a lot more so if you think about
it it's a little bonkers that is a
startup you have to think about all of
these things
so really going back to my first tip
think about the ways that you can use
software to manage compliance for you
so back to you as a startup what does
this mean
just this
your time is valuable
stay focused on where your competitive
advantage is
your killer product
leverage software to grow try out new
pricing models optimize your revenue and
keep and check the things that aren't
core to your business
so we talked a lot talked about a lot
today and to wrap up we have some big
trends in software for sas
building killer products by staying
close to your customers and leveraging
software in order to scale your sas
business
and the key takeaway that hopefully
resonates with all of you in the
audience
because you're driving this change with
your sas businesses is that it's never
been easier to use software to set up
scale and run your business
so last time we were at saster this
number was three percent that was in
2019.
now five to eight percent of global gdp
is currently being run online
it's growing fast but it's still so
small
and there's so much opportunity ahead
and it's really exciting to think that
software is still in its early days
think about how many trillion dollar
businesses are still yet to be built to
take advantage of this
imagine what the economy will look like
when that number is 50 percent
sas and all of you building sas in the
audience will get us there
so use it in your business today and
enable the companies of tomorrow
thank you for your time
[Music]
you